# multiplayer-bingo
An N player game of Bingo in Java.
IMPORTANT: You will find the main method inside the Game.java file.

What each file contains:
	Moderator.java:
		public class Moderator
	Player.java:
		public class Player
	Resources.java:
		public class Resources
	Output.java:
		interface Output
		class FileOP
		class SysOP
	Game.java:
		public class Game - contains public static void main(String...args) method
	OOP.mp4:
		Video demonstration of the code.
	Output.txt:
		The Output that was generated in the video. Can be deleted.
	
Design Patterns:
	1. Observer Design Pattern
		Observed class: Moderator
		Observer class: Player
	2. Singletons
		I. Moderator
		II. Resources
		III. FileOP and SysOP
	3. Strategy Design Pattern
		Interface: Output
		Classes:
			A. FileOP
			B. SysOP

Uses of course learning:
	1. Multithreading: 
		Multiple players run their threads at the same time.
		The moderator also has its own dedicated thread.
		They access shared resources in a synchronised manner.
	2. Generics and Collections:
		ArrayLists are used to store many things in this program. These include:
			I. An ArrayList of Integer type
			II. An ArrayList of Player type, a user defined class
		This requires the use of generics in the class ArrayList.
	3. Arrays
		There is an array of Thread type that is generated by the mod.
		This array is used to call the start method on all of them.
	4. Exception Handling
		Although the chances of encountering an exception here are less, I have taken care of all the exceptions we might encounter. This also includes a user defined exception.
	5. Input/Output 
		A. Input:
			BufferedReaders have been used everywhere in the program for i/p	 			I. To get value of n
				II. To get the user's preference for o/p
		B. Output:
			There are 2 options for o/p in this program. The user must pick.
				I. Printing to the terminal using System.out.print()
				II. Writing to "Output.txt" file using FileWriter
